Blog-F16-Data Articles

Topic modelling is a fascinating concept. I have been hoping to get to this kind of thing in this course. I am very excited by the potential offered by tools that analyze data in text especially. I am intrigued to learn more about some of the techniques described by Blevins. I see this sort of tool offering guideposts to a historian seeking to make sense of a large tract of data. Blevin points to his ability to isolate a marked increase in 'emotional' language in a two year time period. This kind of observation can direct a historian's attention to a specific section of a large data set for closer analysis. I am looking forward to working closer with this technology!

The reference to Margaret Cohen's "great unread" in the [Introduction to Big Data](http://www.themacroscope.org/?page_id=17) to the 99% of non-canonical literature is fascinating. Coming from an education with a close focus on the canon, I see phenomenal promise in this proposal. While there are certainly many limits which would need to be acknowledged by any scholar implementing these methods, they nonetheless offer the promise of great discoveries. If nothing else, this could greatly help a researcher narrow their research. This is another premise I hope to continue to consider as this course progresses.

We are prompted to consider the ethical, moral, and legal dimensions of what we are doing in this course. These are important factors to consider and I will try to keep them on my mind as working through the rest of the course. Coming from my background of Humanities, ethical and moral considerations are never too far out of my mind!

The need to set a framework is an interesting intellectual exercise. I am intriuged by the premise of the arguments presented but, admitedly, have not read them in close detail. I have put these on my list of readings to return to after completing some of the exercises in this module. I do like the way the course is set up insofar as theoretical and methodological information is presented at the beginning of a module that is later followed by exercises. That being said, my eagerness to begin accessing some of the exercises often takes precedent over a closer study of the material. I am recording this note largely to remember to return to these later.

In reference to use of newspaper sources, I will admit to using newspaper sources without a great deal of thought. I think the need for acknowledgment of methodologies used in historical projects to obtain source information is well argued. Many of the arguments discussed refer back to a single underlying fact that is important to remember - much of the material being used as academic sources was neither created for nor organized with academics in mind. When this is considered, caution becomes all the more important. We live in a world where information is rarely more than a couple keystrokes away. Given the ease of obtaining information, the need to regularly pause and critically examine methods is of great import. As a student brought up in this world of seemingly limitless information, I need to remember to take my own advice!