Getting Started
January 11 2016
Having started getting into the course, I am both excited and slightly intimidated by what the course has to offer. My excitement is simply an excitement to learn! One area where my skills are particularly lacking is in digital literacy. I would love to remedy this situation to a point where I can feel comfortable with more advanced forms of digital analysis and presentation of information.
I was fortunate that I already have a fluency with Slack. This knowledge of the platform helps me be more comfortable with this aspect of the course. Setting up a domain name was fairly simple mechanically (but quite challenging when determining a name!). I ultimately selected ‘prefaces’ and I imagine I’ll explain my choice at some point. Setting up a github account wasn’t especially challenging. Encountering the home screen once I had the account on the other hand was quite intimidating. All I have figured out so far was how to fork the workbook. Beyond that, I am hoping the exercises walk me through its functionalities.
I have started with some of the early readings and wanted to take a short break to record my early thoughts on the course material. I am writing this short post in a word document as I haven’t figured out how to blog on the course platform yet. I assume I’ll figure it out eventually and will have this post already taken care of.
Before I close up shop for the night, I just want to touch briefly on the articles I have read. I am very intrigued by information visualization. Some of the material presented by Jefferson Bailey was absolutely fascinating and I would love to have the ability to create something similar someday. The principles of information visualization were also interesting. While I primarily skimmed this article, I have saved it for later to assist me when I need to consider how to display information. I can particularly see the application for some of my own studies in the Humanities and in History. For example, I could see its application for some of the research I am currently conducting on the Arabic cultural and intellectual influence on Dante. As I get further into the research, I wonder if I may be able to apply some of these techniques. Definitely something to keep in the back of my mind!
Well that’s all for now I suppose. Excitement and slight intimidation will sum up today. I look forward to getting into the material!
